All right.
So in the previous lesson we fixed some failing tests that were relying on the is logged in property
on our view X Store.
Now there's just one bit of functionality related to our View X Store that we are not yet testing in
our main NAV component.
And it is this log in user method right here.
This method also interacts with our View X Store by invoking the commit method on it and sending it
a single argument of log in user.
Now the difference between this method and the computed property above is that this method is actually
invoked by a user interaction.
We run this method only when the user clicks the action button.
So as a reminder, we wired up that event handler right here on our action button.
So when we mount this main nav component in our test suite, we're not actually running this method
at any point.
So there's no way to really test that it's working yet.
In comparison, our computed property automatically runs whenever the component mounts, which is why
the test suite was able to detect that the state property was not defined and give us the warnings we
saw in the previous lesson.
So we're kind of accidentally skipping over this logic right now.
And I'd like to add a test for this logic.
Now, the question here is how do we test this?
And I propose that we really only have to test one thing, that the main NAV component is sending the
right message to the store object.
Right?
We care that the may not component is talking to view x and invoking the commit method and invoking
the commit method with the right argument.
We don't really care about how view deals with that message in its internals, in its mutations, right?
We don't really care about what the state is.
We care about the state right here.
But for the purposes of testing this method, we don't really care about the state of the store.
We just care that we are invoking the right method and passing it the right argument.
And what that does is it decouples our test from accidentally over testing the view X implementation.
We don't want to test the code that the View X team wrote.
We want to test the code that is going on in our main NAV component.
Main component responsibility is to talk to the store.
It's not to run the store or to handle its internals.
So I propose that we add a new test where we replace this commit method with a just mock function.
Because remember, a just mock function is able to track how many times it's been called and with what
arguments.
So what we can do is we can manage our component, we can replace the commit here with a just function.
We can then simulate the user pressing the action button and then verify that commit has been called
with the right argument of log in user.
All right, so let me show you how that's going to work right here.
Before I write this test, I just want to change a little bit of a description here.
Right here.
We previously had the described block of when the user logs in because our tests went through the whole
flow of the user clicking the button and comparing the before and after.
Now, in this state, in this world in which we live, in which the view store has and is logged in
property set to true, this is technically at the point that the user is already logged in.
So I'm just going to change this to when user is logged in.
And that will allow me to put a complimentary describe block below.
So after that, describe block.
But within my top level one, I'm going to add another describe block that says when user is logged
out, because that's when I anticipate the user will click the button that's going to log them in.
And so for my test description, I'm going to violate one of my own principles.
I'm going to write a description here that is going to be a little bit technical in implementation or
in detail.
And I'm going to say it issues call to view X to log into user.
Now, if you don't want to talk about the technical details of your solution, you can always remove
this line and simply say it issues call to log in user.
Because as we talked about earlier, we always want our test descriptions to be describing the user
value.
This to me is not really the user value.
It is a technical implementation detail.
But for now, I think it's it's okay.
So following the protocol that we set up earlier, I'm going to create a view next door.
So I'm going to invoke the create store function that we imported from View X.
And I'm not going to give it any arguments because I don't need it to have any actual state.
For the purposes of this test, yes, in the real world for this to work our view store needs and is
logged in property so that our mutation can flip it.
Right.
And you could say if we were trying to run a full test where we allowed view X to do its thing, where
we issued a mutation, made sure that you updated the chain, then checked it on our component to see
the change, then we would absolutely have to provide that data property and as well as the mutation.
But that would require us to fully integrate view X into our main NAV component.
That means we would be using the complete, full real world implementation of view X.
And while that is a good in a certain way because we're using the real world thing, it also creates
a lot more points of failure.
It becomes less of a unit test because we're integrating a totally separate library into our test for
a main nav component.
So if something in view breaks, for example, then this test here will break.
Even though we haven't, it has nothing to do with our code and it has everything to do with how View
X works, right?
So the more that we can separate ourselves, decouple us from view as much as possible, the more stable
our own tests will be.
That's why I'm generally not a fan of bringing all of you X into a test so we don't care about the is
logged in property because for the purposes of this test we only care about the log in user invoking
the commit method on the store.
That's all we care about.
We don't care about the store's internals.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create a constant called Commit and I'm going to assign
it to a just function.
And what I'm going to do below is I have my view X Store and we know that we have a commit method on
my do x store.
This is how we issue a mutation to a bookstore.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to take that existing method and I'm going to overwrite it.
I'm going to replace that method with a reference to my just mock function.
So I'm basically taking that method and I've replaced it with a totally different mock method.
So in a sense, I'm still using the principles of marking here, but instead of marking out my entire
store, I just mocked out the commit method on a real view X store.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to shallow amount my main nav component and I'm going to invoke
my create config function.
I'm going to pass in that store.
And then what I want to do is the same protocol that I did earlier.
I want to find the actual login button right here and we have that former data test attribute available.
So I'm going to say const login button and I'm going to find the data test attribute.
With a value of log in button, which we already have, and then I'm going to simulate a user clicking
on this button.
The way we do that is we do log in button and we trigger an event, and that event is going to be a
click.
This is going to be an asynchronous action.
So we need to make sure that we put the a weight keyword in front of here to make sure we block the
test from continuing while the click completes and while the component renders and deals with all of
its internals.
So in order to use a weight here, we also need to make the test asynchronous.
So I'll make this an async function right now.
What do I care that happens after the user clicks the button?
I care that the log in user method is going to run.
And what is that going to do?
It's going to invoke the commit method on my store, which I now have represented, as is just the mock
function.
So I can say after the user clicks, the log in button is that I expect my commit just function and
I can I can also play an argument here of to have been called with.
And what I expected it to be called with log in underscore user.
Let's see if this works.
So I'm going to save this.
And you can see it does indeed pass.
So let me show you how our test would fail if our implementation was incorrect.
So, for example, if we had the wrong mutation here, like log in users and I saved that, then we
would catch that because our mock would know, Hey, I was invoked with an argument of log in users
and you told me it should be log in user.
So now we are verifying that we are sending the right mutation to the store by sending the commit method,
the right string.
But notice that we're not actually dealing with the real world commit method.
We are using our own just function.
Similarly, if I completely commit this code out, then when I run my test and we click the log in button,
then this logic will never run and my code on my test will tell me, Hey, I got a number of calls of
zero.
You were telling me to expect that my commit method on my store was going to be called with an argument
and I didn't receive any calls.
I got zero.
So now we are verifying that we are number one interacting with the store by invoking the correct method
of commit.
And number two, not just that we're invoking commit, but that we're passing it the right argument
of log in user.
And that, I argue, is the main half components, entire responsibility.
That is the line I want to draw between how much may NAV is responsible for and how much view X is responsible
for it.
I'm just saying in my test, my component is going to give you this information, view, this method
and this string.
You take care of all of your store updates and I don't care how you do it.
And when you update your store and you have a different state inside of it, how am I going to test
the that interaction is correctly represented in my component in these tests above where I create a
store with the exact state that I want.
So I'm testing the interaction with the store and then I'm testing the store and how it affects my component
in these separate, smaller, leaner tests, each with a single assertion and each with a lightweight
store that is optimized for just what I'm testing right here.
All right.
So hopefully that has been helpful.
This is an approach that allows us to use the real app, real view store in our tests.
In the very next lesson, we're going to see how we can create an even leaner set of tests by relying
on mock objects.
So he know that's my favorite strategy and I'm going to show you how to do it in the very next lesson.